# Personal-Essay
## Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far? 
A few years ago I was sitting in a coffee shop teaching myself to code using Python when I hit a wall. I could not understand what I was doing wrong and I tried everything (going back, retracing my steps, googling, everything) I finally gave up. I put my hands in my head and wanted to scream because I knew the solution was so simple but I could not see it. It was in that point in time I wished there was an app that connected me to someone that was familiar with the program. An app that allowed you to list your skills, location, and the option to be notified if someone required your skillset (be it for money or a hobby). I was in a room full of people, on cap hill—in Seattle, surely someone had some idea about how python worked. It was in that moment I knew I NEEDED to develop this skill. Why am I interested in programming? Because I want to be able to create something and say “I made this, for this purpose, and it can do this”. I am always looking for ways to make things more efficient to save time and energy. I think that learning to code will allow me to develop the skills I need to think things through before implementing. I love that when coding you get instant feedback, either the computer understands your demands or it doesn’t---you are forced to think on the spot what went wrong if things don’t pan out and if they do you get instant gratification that you did something right. I find it incredibly rewarding, challenging and confidence boosting. When I learned about ADA Developer’s academy I knew it would be the perfect place for me to learn. 

## If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years? 

To be honest, I haven’t thought much about where I see myself because I don’t know what the world of technology has in store for me. I am not fully aware of the full potential of acquiring this new skill. But If accepted into the program, I would like to continue my work in the non-profit sector—specifically the homeless population. I would like to help improve systems of communications between providers and patients, especially those that live in the trenches and are unable to easily get to their primary care doctors office or mental health providers. I would also like to broaden this scope to include helping with housing and education for vulnerable populations. 


## After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?

I would contribute to ADA’s mission by encouraging other women in my community (sisters, friends, and peers, nieces) to continue studying math, science and technology and not to shy away from a field typically dominated by men. I would want to empower others to be leaders through example and  to show others that if I can accomplish something of this caliber that they can too. 

##  Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently? 
Of the many, many, many, mistakes I’ve made, the one that stands out to me is deciding my college major.  As the first person in my family to go to college, I had NO idea what I was doing or what to expect. I didn’t know anything about colleges or universities, I just knew I had to attend. I didn’t know what to study and didn’t have anyone in my family to guide me so I looked others for advice. Everyone kept telling me to do what I loved. Terrible advice ever. For me. At the time. For someone with limited resources and not a lot of job opportunities, I would’ve appreciated a more realistic answer. If I could do things differently, I would go back and have the confidence to do my own research and trust in myself to be my own leader rather than rely on what other people think is best for me. 
